I have my best girl Melissa sitting
off-camera
melissa is not only my most ardent
admirer
she's my best informed critic I made a
video about four months ago
or I spoke passionately about the
importance of the intimate partners you
have in your life male female
transgender or whatever you're into
saying you know when you really live
with someone this way it's not just that
you do each other's dishes you know um
you behold yourself as you're reflected
in that person's eyes nobody else knows
you the way they know you nobody else
knows the decisions you made and the
reasons why at that time you made that
decision what your motivations were what
your preoccupations were when certain
decisions happened you know you're
constantly kind of bathing yourself in
the criticism of your
boyfriend/girlfriend husband/wife
assuming you really live together and in
our case we really spend like 24 hours a
day 7 days a week together even back
when we both had jobs in China and so on
we spend a lot of quality time together
you know so it may be said to some
extent she participates in my philosophy
to some extent she perceives it from the
outside right and to some extent she's a
critic of it and I think both of us
laugh a lot about the drawbacks about
the disadvantages of my philosophy and
my approach to life right I mean you
know sure sometimes I laugh about it why
well how would my life be different if I
could just get along how would my life
be different if I were more or sinka
fanta core dishonest if I played a
different game by different rules we
joke about it we laugh were both aware
of the advantages and disadvantages but
you know for my girlfriend there was a
really really striking change in her
life because the boyfriend she had
before me I'm not gonna paint it in
terribly dark colors here he was in many
ways like a caricature of the average
American
right I mean his philosophy his
lifestyle was devoted to pleasure as he
understood it okay he enjoyed playing
video games you want to venture a guess
as to so I again I'm not keeping scorn
of the guy but he would come home from
work quite late at night already right
and then he would play online video
games with his coworkers right until
like what hour of the night is something
okay so he played he played video games
regularly on weekday nights like Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday until 3:00
a.m. or 3:30 a.m. and you were already
asleep when he finished one so you never
saw how the game and he never found out
who won but you know you would go to
sleep with him playing video games and
know that he was still playing video
games many hours after you went to sleep
yeah perhaps it's possible that
sometimes the game was a little too
entertaining and he stayed up even later
we don't I'm not I'm not I'm not even
guy he played video games
he drank alcohol he smoked marijuana
right basically every day or every week
every day Wow that's alright no nobody
drank you drank he smoked marijuana
everyday that's a that's a big choice I
mean I've never heard anyone say they
smoked marijuana and then sat down to
study for a test or wrote a book like
your ability to any kind of focus work
so you know what he represented to you
you know philosophically and practically
in daily life is a very very stark
contrast and again let's just come back
to this image I mean you beheld yourself
in his eyes and he had to behold himself
as reflected in your eyes right I mean
to some extent that mutual you know
pressure and criticism is there is there
all the time right now the question I
asked my viewers again
if you just use your imagination
thinking about Melissa we've now been
together for more than three years I've
made a post about our three-year
anniversary when it came and went right
um
I've asked my audience sincerely
although with some exasperation look if
you really think my philosophy is so bad
and so wrong
can you just can you just imagine can
you just think looking ahead in the next
five years if you lived by my philosophy
how your life would be different what do
you think that would be an improvement
or what that would lead you to in terms
of your learning in terms your lifestyle
you know if you really adopted this very
uncompromising intellectual approach to
the meaning of life if you start holding
yourself to those standards and I'm the
first person to say there are
disadvantages I've made so many videos
boom owning that and talking about I
mean okay a great example my experience
living in Thailand Cambodia and Laos
other people would describe that as a
success and a wonderful time as you my
own father who's now deceased he always
insisted on that he said look you know
what you did in Thailand Cambodia Laos
it was amazing it was wonderful and he
compared it to other things and his own
life and my various brother's life said
look nobody else has done that you did
this business you know as a scholar you
did this you went and saw these
archaeological sites and you did this
humanitarian work he did all this
research you learned you know this is
this wonderful experience my father
would insist to me stop describing it as
a failure right but it is a failure
relative to what my ambitions were to
what I was trying to accomplish and one
of the things you know I'm very aware of
in academia is that people are all the
time lowering their ambitions and
lowering the description of objectives
to try to represent failure as success
like oh yeah well this was the purpose
of the research project in Cambodia all
along no wasn't you know you were you're
trying to a call for something more and
you failed
you know um but part part of my
philosophy is very real agony over those
failures and the fact that I perceive
them as failures at all
I could sit here and list offer you all
the wonderful things I accomplished what
a growing learning educational
experience those years were nevertheless
for me a failure nevertheless
heartbreaking and I think I've mentioned
this before but the day I had to give up
my lotion dictionary
you know I wept I think it really was
like one tear falling from my eye
cinematically enough but you know I just
wasn't in a situation where at any time
to weep I was handing this dictionary
over and I was taking my bags and going
to the train station sort of thing but
you know and it's not because the
dictionary itself was precious it's
because it represented something
represented hundreds and hundreds of
hours of hard work on my part studying
this language and all the ambitions and
ideas of the future and the humanitarian
work and the political and ethical and
the historical research there's so much
bound up in this dictionary and now I'm
giving it away and I'm never gonna study
this language again you know in all
probability
I'm leaving Laos and exiled after people
in the government threatened to kill me
I'm not gonna lie to you and describe
that as a success as a success but many
people could and I can tell the story in
an upbeat and funny way right but I mean
my point is that's also a kind of
necessary consequence of my very serious
attitude towards life and leading a
meaningful life and from my perspective
getting the most out of life
right and Melissa's ex-boyfriend let's
let's be real from his perspective he
might look up from playing his video
game at 3 o'clock in the morning and
drinking a vodka cocktail and smoking
marijuana he might really say he's
getting the most of the life he would
also voracious appetite big eater
gourmand ease we might say you know he
was the pleasure of eating he was also
very passionate about and he got very
overweight for that reason um I'm not
here to condemn the guy right but you
guys know this about me I don't live to
eat my life is not about none of these
things you know I lived in Thailand for
all those years and never once went to
the beach I lived in Cambodia I never
went to Angkor while I was not there to
do tourist stuff I was not there to
enjoy myself and even I know it sounds
ridiculous when I go to a restaurant I'm
doctor to enjoy myself I know you know
we have this phrase in Buddhism
regarde all food as medicine for the
sickness of hunger you know but I mean I
I just I don't live that way I don't I
don't think that way and I mean
something else I mean this has come up
in different context with most of it so
let's usually say hey you might think my
life is hard but I get to wake up every
day and be me you know it's this
wonderful reward the outcome from that
there's so much meaningful work and
meaningful research I can do even just
with the books that are inside this
apartment now currently the library is
closed due to an epidemic coronavirus
you know it's currently there's no way I
go to a library and get any other books
do any other research and you know what
let's be honest at this stage there's so
much meaningful I can do sitting down
with a blank sheet of paper just
starting from nothing you know if I just
want to write you know and that's the
result of that's the fruit of you know
yes the sorrow of the agony the hard
work living by that standard living with
that philosophy for all those years now
I'm so look Melissa you're you're more
than three years deep into this
I think the absurd juxtaposition is you
are really aware of how living by my
philosophy even though again she's
partly an outsider is perfectly an
observer and we both laugh at it if we
will have had the absurd implications
you know I think you really know how
this has made you a better person and
made your life more meaningful more
rewarding you know the stark contrast of
going in many ways from living your
ex-boyfriends philosophy to living with
my philosophy for three years and there
was a transition you know I mean you
know really i won't i won't digress into
details but i mean especially at the
time when we were both enrolled to go to
bake in college the idea of becoming
bakers for vegan activism the question
was for both of us really both of us
question is to what extent are we going
to be intellectuals afterwards and
melissa at one point like you know i
remember where she kind of threw down
the gauntlet if that is humor you you
know you you kind of threw a fit one day
you just said look i don't want my life
to be about washing dishes and mopping
the floor
we're doing manual labor and this I just
you know I want to have a life of the
mind you know I feel like the
intellectual part of my life has to be a
bigger priority now one for the next
five years and when I'm an old person I
just can't see this working for me
intellectually I thought and I thought
it was a very interesting moment your
life because in the months leading up to
that I mean nobody nobody was feeding
her that idea you know my mom was super
supportive of us opening a bakery your
parents I think supported it as much as
they supply you know and for me also I
was trying to believe in that future and
trying to encourage you to take baking
seriously and to make this the way we'd
be a couple and live together right look
I mean sorry I you know this video ends
up being a you know a somewhat wistful
reflection on this but I mean that's
that's what I'm asking the audience and
I mean it's past tense it's what of what
I've asked you and what I'm asking the
audience is if you think this philosophy
is look back at the last five
years your life and ask how different
those five years would be if you had
lived by my philosophy past tense you
know that might be easier to do or might
be harder to do then looking ahead to
the next five years we had one guy
coming into discord and he said no he
was totally happy being a video game
addict for the last five years because
he managed to finishes his BA I think
think was an MSc masters of science you
know when he said was great he didn't
want to answer the question of how many
hours a week he spent flake video games
you know um but we don't know whether it
was ten hours a week or 20 20 hours a
week you know obviously he managed to
complete his studies and get a job and
stuff and I said to him no you're
kidding yourself you're lying to
yourself
you just squandered the educational
opportunity of a lifetime you know
whether it was ten hours a week or 20
hours a week you spent playing video
games that was the crucial time for your
own education and you spent that play
minute and guys I have a human heart
people act like I'm saying this with no
compassion it's out of pure compassion I
know what it's like to look back at my
own high school years and regret all the
time spent playing video games and
Melissa
for you I think both both high school
and university and and brief to look
back and really regret that and to now
be on the internet reaching out to
people saying don't make the mistake I
made don't make the mistake Melissa made
don't make excuses don't office really
face up to you know and and evaluate you
know that regret okay so the other thing
that's funnier I started to say this
before
Melissa ends up because she falls in
love with me to some extent living by by
my philosophy just this you know real
priority on your own education on the
life of the mind and admittedly the life
they might as I define it right and
someone else mentioned by the way some
examples of so-called intellectuals who
drink a lot of alcohol and do a lot of
drugs which you know in terms of how the
word intellectual is used that
completely recognize that's part of our
culture whether it's the a French idea
of an election one American idea is the
idea of the so called bombs evolve
people who don't just eat meat and drink
alcohol but sleep with prostitutes and
do all kinds of things they point out
look your idea of an intellectual is not
compelling true I'm a hundred percent
guilty as charged and most of the people
they're referring to as intellectuals I
don't regard as legitimate election I
think that's completely incompatible
with life than mine but it's been two
things one since Melissa got on this
path she's been really aware of how it's
changed her as a person and made her
life better as a person and she gets to
see how her parents don't get it it's
just like like other people around you I
think your parents are really the only
ones who spent enough time with you
we're like you know think there's no
point mentioning emails but you know
your parents just look on like what why
are you learning Chinese like why are
you reading philosophy why are you
reading about history and both of what
what does this mean you know what they
just look on and I mean I can't even say
it's like disapproval or condemnation I
think it's just in comprehension you
know and again they were the ones who
put video games in your hands and you
know the I'm not hating on them but they
were people
put it this way they wanted you to watch
football they wanted you to go to
football games yeah I think that's very
you know they wanted you to go to
football games with them and sit on the
couch and watch football games they
wanted you to exactly lead that life the
same kind of music that they liked like
hard rock old rock yeah I have not had
these kinds of bonding activities you
know with with her parents okay but the
question one ask is this and it means so
hypothetically I would ask most as
parents this question I'm really asking
you in the audience and we can ask him
Alyssa to for the sake of it but like if
you chose to live by my philosophy not
believing in it what do you mean
even if you started off from the kind of
attitude like well this guy doesn't know
what he's talking about but as an
experiment I'm gonna try to play by his
rules if you chose to live by my
philosophy for five years look what do
you imagine is the worst possible
outcome okay because living by her
ex-boyfriends philosophy right which is
again not an uncommon philosophy
definitely not here in the Pacific
Northwest Seattle Vancouver Victoria
right a lot of people live the way her
ex-boyfriend lives whether or not they
philosophize about it right I can give
you a really simple chart of like
best-case scenario worst-case scenario
right like where you're gonna develop
yourself to mentally physically
ethically another wise what you're gonna
accomplish
politically you know this is a life you
know devoid of ambitions totally focused
on your own not just your own pleasure
but a very narrow dim kind of selfish
self-indulgence and without even really
applying your mind to figure out other
things that might be pleasant you like
not even going as far afield and
viciously to think
hey I'm gonna build a boat building a
boat may not seem like a great
accomplishment but compared to spending
all your times spending all your time
smoking marijuana and playing video
games obviously it's it's more ambitious
when we're that close to the you know
the freezing point of the of the
spectrum you know not even but because
you could just be completely narrowly
focused in your own pleasure
but build a boat for a living I'm just
leaving the door open there to some
other some other vices so yeah it's a
serious question I wish your parents
could think this through you know which
they could kind of do the work
imaginatively and sympathetically
because think if you live according to
my philosophy for five years I think
it's very easy to be optimistic about
the type of person you can become about
how much you can learn and how much you
can do and how much you can see and who
you are going to be after five years you
know and I used to say that so many of
you know all the time it's shallow and
it's deep at the same time all right I I
sometimes do regret that I didn't do
shallow things during my years in
Thailand you know I sometimes think
maybe I should have been a bit more of a
hedonist during there's really some
times I kind of look back and regret but
then if I actually think the time to
think through positively the things I
was motivated by the things I was
passionate about you know and again you
know passion passion also involves
suffering and sorrow when I was reading
in detail about people being hunted down
and murdered by the police in Thailand
during that period of time I was really
moved I was really involved that was not
some dry academic study when I was
reading about you know ongoing in recent
history and thinking you know it was
harrowing for me I'm now you know
this wasn't like the study of
mathematics on a chalkboard and you know
indeed when I went out to rural Laos and
saw the bomb craters left by the
Americans and read about atrocities
committed by the Americans a few decades
earlier when I talk to people
face-to-face who had survived that there
were no middle-aged people or elderly
people reflecting on those all that
stuff really moved me and really
mattered to me so when he say I was
passionate about it you know it's it's
it's all these things too you know yes I
was passionate about Buddhist philosophy
I was passionate but spending many many
hours studying the language and
what-have-you
some of it I mean like studying grammar
in the Pali language quite dry and
repetitive studying orthography so on
and so forth
there's studying palm leaf manuscripts
sure it's it's funny to look back at
that and think maybe I should have made
a bunch of vegan friends in Chiang Mai
and gone to the places where people swim
in bikinis a female like maybe I should
have been doing some of these things but
when I think it through positively what
I think through what I was positively
motivated by at that time then it's even
easier to understand why I've regarded
those meaningless distractions so
negatively right it's not just that
those things are bad it's that there
were things that were really really good
in my life that were of overweening you
know significance all right if people
can be really honest with you I think
their main memories of University will
be a sense of despondency aimlessness
boredom even self-hatred and I think the
self-hatred often arises out of a sense
of direction lessness I think a lot of
people you've talked about this in
slightly different terms babe but my
girlfriend's also said things of this a
lot of people get to university as as
youths and they have the sense this
place is it's not for me it's setup for
someone else this library exists for
somebody I can see this library was
created for a purpose and I'm not here
to do that and this has nothing to do
with
and you know um you know it may be
invisible when people walk in and out of
that library door the people who walk in
with a sense of purpose
self-discipline focus meaning in their
lives that they're going in that library
to do the most rewarding thing possible
this may be the most exciting day of
their lives what they're doing in that
library I've situation I've had exciting
days in the archives in the library
because and it's not because something
inside lever ultimately it's because of
me it's because of who I am and the
motivation and I'm bringing to and the
tenacity and interest and what I'm
working on and my focus right and there
are so many hundreds of people walking
in and out of that library miserable
despondent depressed feeling out of
place because they're like well I don't
even know why I'm taking this course I
don't even know why I'm being forced to
learn this thing I don't know why me
forced to write an essay about this I'm
supposed to find some book on this topic
and read it and write this essay I don't
know was I've warned people that I
repeatedly like boredom is a deceptively
simple term for a really complex
phenomena in your life you've got to
examine you've got to take a part you've
got to understand more more deeply right
like if only the other people in this
library could understand why they're
bored and I'm not and that that applies
to Buddhist libraries in Thailand as
much as academic libraries in the West
or something I mean the the the most
valuable gift you can give somebody is
not an education and it's not access to
education but it's the will to learn
it's the motivation right and now
melissa gets the feel at age 27 how much
different it is walking into a library
how much different it is being on a
university campus or it's like yes this
is for me you know all of this was
built for me and for people like me you
know I'm here for the right reasons with
the right motives you know
this isn't something I'm the only native
from this is something I own this is
something I'm empowered by and you know
and you know what I mean the truth is
you can fail a course but still when you
come in with that motivation you know
that you got what you wanted out it's
like hey I'm here to learn I'm here to
research this make a right that
submitter study this language you know
when you have that fire and that passion
and that's ultimately the kind of reward
you know I'm trying to share with
everybody the audience with you and you
and you you know and you can look at my
life as a series of tragedies you can
look at you know research I didn't loss
ending a tragedy research I did with
Korean aji of Wayne and Jeff you could
you could look at them as strategies
right but the triumph is me the triumph
is I get to be me is that in enduring
and overcoming each one of those
terrible situations I fashioned myself
into the man who I now AM which is you
know in large part self-discipline that
passion that interest you know it's
taking that spark of childhood curiosity
and building it up into a raging flame
even more I got laser where you can
really use your curiosity every day and
does a lot more than than light up your
life you know I mean I I get to lead a
meaningful life anywhere I am under any
circumstances even if I'm put in prison
even if all I have is a blank piece of
paper right that's the wonderful outcome
of going through all those
disappointments and all those failures
all those struggles and you know again I
don't remember all the things I studied
in Laos and Thailand or I do but I'm not
conversing in them I can't work hold to
memory instantly a particular factoid
about particular kings of Thailand or
who assassinated whom in the history of
Cambodia at what point you know and I
studied all those things in tremendous
detail with tremendous passion and yet
you know that's the same fire I kindled
that's the same sparkler that's the same
laser beam if you want to put it that's
burning right
when I open a book on Chinese politics
or Japanese politics whatever I'm
working on at the time you know and I'm
bringing that same acumen and that
background and that knowledge and I was
surrounded by hundreds of white men in
Thailand who were either going to the
brothel or the beach or we're going
mountain climbing or we're going to a
vegan party in Chiang Mai to indulge in
hedonistic you know pleasures of the
senses and from my perspective when they
went back home when they went back to
Canada when they went back to England
erupted the United States when they left
Thailand they left with nothing and I
left with everything because what I left
with is everything I need to lead a
meaningful life